

DROP TABLE IF EXISTS videoGame;
CREATE TABLE videoGame (
gameID INT AUTO_INCREMENT,
Title VARCHAR (100),
releaseDate date,
Developer VARCHAR (100),
Publisher VARCHAR (100),
Description VARCHAR (2000),
PRIMARY KEY (gameID)
);


LOCK TABLES videoGame WRITE;

INSERT INTO videoGame (gameID,Title,releaseDate,Developer,Publisher,Description) VALUES 
(1,'Ace Combat 04: Shattered Skies','2001-02-08','Namco','Namco','A semi-realistic flight simulation developed by Namco for the PlayStation 2 video game console. It is the first in the Ace Combat series to be released for the PlayStation 2 and the fourth installment in the Ace Combat series.'),
(2,'Burnout 3:Takedown','2004-09-07','Criterion Games','Electronic Arts','Burnout 3: Takedown is a racing game developed by Criterion Games and published by Electronic Arts for PlayStation 2 and Xbox. It is the third game in Criterions Burnout series. The game was released in September 2004 and drew critical acclaim and a large fanbase. It is one of the highest rated racing games of all time, according to aggregator GameRankings'),
(3,'Call of Duty','2004-11-16','Spark Unlimited','Activision','Call of Duty: Finest Hour is a 2004 first-person shooter video game. It was released for the GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox on November 16, 2004 in North America. It was the first console installment of Call of Duty, developed by Spark Unlimited and published by Activision. It was followed up by a sequel, Call of Duty 2: Big Red One, in 2005.'),
(4,'Dragon Ball Z: Budokai','2002-11-02','Dimps','Bandai','Dragon Ball Z: Budokai, released as Dragon Ball Z in Japan, is a fighting game released for the PlayStation 2 on November 2, 2002, in Europe and on December 3, 2002, in North America'),
(5,'Enter the Matrix','2003-05-14','Shint Entertainment','Infogrames','Enter the Matrix is the first video game based on The Matrix series of films. Its story was concurrent with that of The Matrix Reloaded, and featured over an hour of original footage, directed by The Wachowskis and starring the cast of the film trilogy, produced exclusively for the game. It sold one million copies in its first eighteen days of release, 2.5 million over the first six weeks, and ultimately 5 million copies.'),
(6,'Final Fantasy X','2001-12-17','Square Product','Squaresoft','Final Fantasy X is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square  as the tenth entry in the Final Fantasy series. Originally released in 2001 for Sonys PlayStation 2, the game was re-released as Final Fantasy X/X-2 HD Remaster for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita in 2013, for PlayStation 4 in 2015 and for Microsoft Windows in 2016.'),
(7,'God of War','2005-03-22','SCE Santa Monica Studio','Sony Computer Entertainment','God of War is a third-person action-adventure video game developed by Santa Monica Studio and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. First released on March 22, 2005, for the PlayStation 2 console, it is the first installment in the series of the same name and the third chronologically. Loosely based on Greek mythology, it is set in ancient Greece with vengeance as its central motif. '),
(8,'Grande Theft Auto III','2001-08-22','DMA Designs','Rockstar Games','Grand Theft Auto III is an open world action-adventure video game developed by DMA Design and published by Rockstar Games. It was released on 22 October 2001 for the PlayStation 2. It is the fifth title in the Grand Theft Auto series, and the first main entry since 1999s Grand Theft Auto 2. Set within the fictional Liberty City, based on New York City, the game follows Claude after he is left for dead and quickly becomes entangled in a world of gangs, crime and corruption.'),
(9,'Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets','2002-11-14','Argonaut','Electronic Arts','Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets is a 2002 action-adventure game published by Electronic Arts based on J.K. Rowlings novel Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets and the film of the same name. It was developed by both EAs internal development team and Eurocom for the PlayStation 2, Xbox, GameCube and Game Boy Advance systems.'),
(10,'Jak and Daxter: The Precursor Legacy','2001-12-03','Naughty Dog','Sony Computer Entertainment','The game follows the protagonist, Jak, as he tries to help his friend Daxter after he transforms into an ottsel (a fictional hybrid of an otter and a weasel). With the help of Samos the Sage, the pair learn that they must save their world from the antagonists Gol and Maia, who plan to flood it with Dark Eco. The game offers a large range of missions and minigames as well as puzzles and platform elements that the player must complete to proceed.'),
(11,'Kingdom Hearts','2002-09-17','Square','Square','Kingdom Hearts is an action role-playing game developed and published by Square in 2002 for the PlayStation 2 video game console. Its the first game in the Kingdom Hearts series, and is the result of a collaboration between Squaresoft and The Walt Disney Company. The game combines characters and settings from Disney animated features with those from Squares Final Fantasy series. It follows Sora, who fights against the forces of darkness. He is joined by Donald Duck, Goofy and other classic Disney characters who help him on his quest.'),
(12,'Lego Star Wars: The Video Game','2005-03-29','Travellers Tales','Lucas Arts','Lego Star Wars: The Video Game is a Lego-themed, action-adventure video game based on the Lego Star Wars line of toys, and the first game in TT Games Lego video game franchise. It was first released on 29 March 2005, and is a video game adaptation of the Star Wars prequel trilogy.'),
(13,'Madden NFL 06','2005-08-08','EA Tiburon','EA Sports','Madden NFL 06 is an American football video game which was released in 2005. It is also a launch game for the Xbox 360. It is the 16th installment of the Madden NFL series by EA Sports, named for noted color commentator John Madden. The product features former Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Donovan McNabb on the cover. It is the first Madden game for the PlayStation Portable and Xbox 360.'),
(14,'Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater','2004-11-17','Konami Computer Entertainment Japan','Konami Corporation','Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater is an action-adventure stealth video game produced by Konami Computer Entertainment Japan for the PlayStation 2. It was released in late 2004 in North America and Japan, then in early 2005 in Europe and Australia. It was the fifth Metal Gear game written and directed by Hideo Kojima and serves as a prequel to the previous installments.'),
(15,'Need For Speed: Underground','2003-11-17','EA Black Box','Electronic Arts','Need for Speed: Underground is the seventh installment in the Need for Speed series, and was developed by EA Black Box and published by Electronic Arts in 2003. It is the first game in the series to use the THX technology. Underground completely rebooted the franchise, ignoring the previous Need for Speed games which featured sports cars and exotics.'),
(16,'Pac-Man World 2','2002-02-24','Namco','Namco','Pac-Man World 2 is a video game by Namco for Xbox, GameCube, PlayStation 2, Game Boy Advance, and Microsoft Windows released in 2002. The Xbox version is not compatible with Xbox 360. Like the original Pac-Man World, the player controls the character of Pac-Man in a 3D platform game.'),
(17,'Ratchet And Clank','2002-11-02','Insomniac Games','Sony Computer Entertainment','Ratchet & Clank is a 2002 3D platform video game developed by Insomniac Games. The game follows the anthropomorphic character Ratchet meeting the robot Clank on his home planet. Clank discovers that the villainous Chairman Drek of the Blarg race plans to create a new planet for his species, destroying other planets in the process. Clank convinces Ratchet to help him in his mission to gain the help of the famous superhero Captain Qwark.'),
(18,'Sly Cooper and the Thievus Raccoonus','2002-09-23','Sucker Punch Productions','Sony Computer Entertainment','Sly Cooper and the Thievius Raccoonus is a platform stealth video game created by Sucker Punch Productions that was released on the Sony PlayStation 2 in 2002, and was subsequently republished as a Greatest Hits title.'),
(19,'Tekken 5','2004-01-12','Namco','Namco','Tekken 5 is a fighting game developed and published by Namco in 2004 for the arcades and in 2005 for the PlayStation 2. It is the fifth canonical installment, and sixth main installment, in the popular Tekken series, marking the tenth anniversary of the series.'),
(20,'Virtua Fighter 4','2002-03-17','Sega AM2','Sega','The game was first released in arcades on the NAOMI 2 board in 2001. A port of the game, as well as that of Virtua Fighter 4: Evolution under the budget-priced Greatest Hits label, appeared on the Sony PlayStation 2 in 2002 and 2003, respectively.'),
(21,'WWE Smackdown! vs. Raw 2006','2005-11-11','Yukes','THQ','WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2006 is a professional wrestling video game released on the PlayStation 2 console and the PlayStation Portable handheld console by THQ and developed by Yukes. It is part of the WWE SmackDown vs. Raw video game series based on the professional wrestling promotion World Wrestling Entertainment. It is the sequel to 2004s WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw and was succeeded by WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2007 in 2006.'),
(22,'Xenosaga Episode I','2003-02-25','Monolith Soft','Namco','Xenosaga Episode I: Der Wille zur Macht is a role-playing video game developed by Monolith Soft and published by Namco for the PlayStation 2 and the first title in the Xenosaga series. Der Wille zur Macht, The Will to Power, is a reference to Friedrich Nietzsches posthumous collection of notes and unused aphorisms, which was intended to become his magnum opus.'),
(23,'Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare','2007-11-05','Infinity Ward','Activision','The story takes place in the year 2011, where a radical leader has executed the president of an unnamed country in the Middle East, and an ultranationalist movement starts a civil war in Russia. The conflicts are seen from the perspectives of a U.S. Force Reconnaissance Marine and a British SAS commando, and are set in various locales, such as the United Kingdom, the Middle East, Azerbaijan, Russia, and Ukraine. The multiplayer portion of the game features various game modes, and contains a leveling system that allows the player to unlock additional weapons, weapon attachments, and camouflage schemes as they advance.'),
(24,'Gran Turismo 5','2010-11-24','Polyphony Digital','Sony Computer Entertainment','Gran Turismo 5, commonly abbreviated as GT5 is the fifth game in the Gran Turismo racing video game series. Developed by Polyphony Digital and published by Sony Computer Entertainment, it was released for PlayStation 3 on November 24, 2010. It expands on the games Prologue version and is the first entry of the series to be developed for PlayStation 3. As of 2013, it is currently one of the best-selling PS3 games and the best selling PS3 exclusive with over 10 million copies sold.'),
(25,'God of War III','2010-03-16','SCE Santa Monica Studio','Sony Computer Entertainment','God of War III is a third-person action-adventure video game developed by Santa Monica Studio and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. Released for the PlayStation 3 console on March 16, 2010, the game is the fifth installment in the God of War series, the seventh chronologically, and the sequel to 2007s God of War II. Loosely based on Greek mythology, the game is set in ancient Greece with vengeance as its central motif.'),
(26,'Grand Theft Auto V','2013-09-17','Rockstar North','Rockstar Games','Grand Theft Auto V is an open world action-adventure video game developed by Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games. The game was released on 17 September 2013 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, on 18 November 2014 for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and on 14 April 2015 for Microsoft Windows. It is the first main entry in the Grand Theft Auto series since 2008s Grand Theft Auto IV. Set within the fictional state of San Andreas, based on Southern California, the single-player story follows three criminals and their efforts to commit heists while under pressure from a government agency. The open world design lets players freely roam San Andreas open countryside and fictional city of Los Santos, based on Los Angeles.'),
(27,'Metal Gear Solid 4','2008-06-12','Kojima Productions','Konami','Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is an action-adventure stealth video game developed by Kojima Productions and published by Konami exclusively for the PlayStation 3 console. It is the sixth Metal Gear game directed by Hideo Kojima and was released worldwide on June 12, 2008.'),
(28,'Red Dead Redemption','2010-05-18','Rockstar San Diego','Rockstar Games','Red Dead Redemption is an open world western action-adventure video game developed by Rockstar San Diego and published by Rockstar Games. It was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles in May 2010. It is the second title in the Red Dead franchise, after 2004s Red Dead Revolver. The game, set during the decline of the American Frontier in the year 1911, follows John Marston, a former outlaw whose wife and son are taken hostage by the government in ransom for his services as a hired gun. Having no other choice, Marston sets out to bring the three members of his former gang to justice.'),
(29,'Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction','2007-10-23','Insomniac Games','Sony Computer Entertainment','Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is a 2007 platformer video game developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 3. The game was released on October 23, 2007 in North America and on November 9, 2007 in Europe. It is the first PlayStation 3 installment in the Ratchet & Clank franchise, as well as the first installment for the Future saga. It was also one of the first PlayStation 3 games to support DualShock 3 rumble without any accessories.'),
(30,'Uncharted 3: Drakes Deception','2011-11-01','Naughty Dog','Sony Computer Entertainment','Uncharted 3 sees protagonist Nathan Drake and mentor Victor Sullivan traveling around the world to places such as the Rub al Khali desert, in search of the legendary lost city the Iram of the Pillars, which is mentioned in the Quran. Elena Fisher and Chloe Frazer also return in Uncharted 3. The plot draws from the archaeology days of T. E. Lawrence. Arne Meyer, Naughty Dogs community strategist stated that the main theme of Uncharted 3 is finding the way.'),
(31,'Uncharted 2: Among Thieves','2009-10-13','Naughty Dog','Sony Computer Entertainment','The story follows Nathan Drake, as he travels around the world, along with Chloe Frazer and old friends Elena Fisher and Victor Sullivan to find the fabled Cintimani Stone and Shangri-La in a race against Serbian mercenaries. The plot draws heavy inspiration from Marco Polo and his travels through Asia, which influence many plot points along the way.'),
(32,'The Last of Us','2013-06-14','Naughty Dog','Sony Computer Entertainment','The Last of Us is played from a third-person perspective; players use firearms and improvised weapons, and can use stealth to defend against hostile humans and cannibalistic creatures infected by a mutated strain of the Cordyceps fungus. Listen Mode allows players to locate enemies through a heightened sense of hearing and spatial awareness. Weapons can also be upgraded using items scavenged from the environment. In the games online multiplayer mode, up to eight players engage in co-operative and competitive gameplay in recreations of single-player settings.'),
(33,'Resident Evil 5','2009-03-05','Capcom','Capcom','Resident Evil 5, known in Japan as Biohazard 5, is a survival horror third-person shooter video game developed and published by Capcom. The seventh major installment in the Resident Evil series, the game was announced in July 2005. It was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles in March 2009 and for Microsoft Windows in September of that year. It was re-released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on June 28, 2016. Resident Evil 5s plot involves an investigation by Bioterrorism Security Assessment Alliance agents Chris Redfield and Sheva Alomar of a terrorist threat in Kijuju, a fictional region of Africa. Chris soon learns that he must confront his past in the form of an old enemy, Albert Wesker.'),
(34,'Call of Dut: Modern Warfare 2','2009-11-10','Infinity Ward','Activision','The games campaign follows the Task Force 141, a special forces unit fronted by Captain Soap MacTavish, and the United States Army Rangers as they hunt Vladimir Makarov, leader of the Russian Ultranationalist party. The games main playable characters are Gary Roach Sanderson, of the 141, and James Ramirez, of the Army Rangers, with Captain MacTavish becoming playable later in the campaign.'),
(35,'Call of Duty: Black Ops','2010-10-09','Treyarch','Activision','Call of Duty: Black Ops is a first-person shooter video game, developed by Treyarch and published by Activision. It was released worldwide on November 9, 2010 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Wii consoles, with a separate version for Nintendo DS developed by n-Space. Announced on April 30, 2010, the game is the seventh installment of the Call of Duty series. It is also the first to be set in the Cold War, the third in the series to be developed by Treyarch, and is the sequel to Call of Duty: World at War.'),
(36,'Assasins Creed','2007-11-13','Ubisoft Montreal','Ubisoft','The plot is set in a fictional history of real world events and follows the centuries-old struggle between the Assassins, who fight for peace with free will, and the Templars, who desire peace through control. The game primarily takes place during the Third Crusade in the Holy Land in 1191, with the plot revolving around the Secret Order of Assassins, based upon the Hashshashin sect. The player is in reality playing as a modern-day man named Desmond Miles, who, through the use of a machine named the Animus, is allowed the viewing and controlling of the protagonists genetic memories of his ancestors, in this case, Altair Ibn-LaAhad, a member of the Assassins.'),
(37,'Assasins Creed II','2009-11-17','Ubisoft Material','Ubisoft','The plot is set in a fictional history of real world events and follows the centuries-old struggle between the Assassins, who fight for peace with free will, and the Templars, who desire peace through control. The framing story is set in the 21st century and follows Desmond Miles as he relives the genetic memories of his ancestor Ezio Auditore da Firenze. The main narrative takes place at the height of the Renaissance in Italy during the 15th and early 16th century. Players can explore Florence, Venice, Tuscany and Forli as they guide Ezio on a quest for vengeance against those responsible for betraying his family. The primary focus is to utilize the players combat and stealth abilities, as Desmond begins to uncover the mysteries left behind by an ancient race known as the First Civilization in the hope of ending the conflict between the Assassins and Templars.'),
(38,'Battlefield 3','2011-10-25','EA DICE','Electronic Arts','The game was released in North America on 25 October 2011 and in Europe on 28 October 2011 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360. EA Mobile also confirmed a port for the iOS platform. The game sold 5 million copies in its first week of release, and received positive reviews from most game reviewers. The PC version is exclusive to EA Origins platform, through which PC users also authenticate when connecting to the game. The games sequel, Battlefield 4, was released on 29 October 2013.'),
(39,'Battlefield: Bad Company 2','2010-03-02','EA DICE','Electronic Arts','The game is primarily a squad-level first-person shooter based in a contemporary modern warfare setting. Additionally, the game includes a single-player campaign, where the player re-assumes the role of Preston Marlowe, the protagonist of the original game. The games Frostbite 1.5 engine allows for destructible environments. Multiplayer maps, which allow for five different game modes, contain a wide selection of vehicles, aircraft and emplacements.'),
(40,'Bioshock','2007-08-21','2K Boston','2K Games','BioShock is set in 1960. The player guides the protagonist, Jack, after his airplane crashes in the ocean near the bathysphere terminus that leads to the underwater city of Rapture. Built by the business magnate Andrew Ryan, the city was intended to be an isolated utopia, but the discovery of ADAM, a genetic material which can be used to grant superhuman powers, initiated turbulent decline.'),
(41,'Fallout 3','2008-10-28','Bethesda Game Studios','Bethesda Software','Fallout 3 is an action role-playing open world video game developed by Bethesda Game Studios, and is the third major installment in the Fallout series. It is the first game to be created by Bethesda Softworks since it bought the franchise from Interplay Entertainment, and was released worldwide in October 2008 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360. The game is set within a post-apocalyptic, open world environment that encompasses a region consisting of the ruins of Washington, D.C. and much of the countryside to the west of it, that is referred to as the Capital Wasteland, and within Fallouts setting of a world that deviated onto an alternate timeline thanks to atomic age technology, which eventually led to its devastation by a nuclear apocalypse in the year 2077.'),
(42,'Forza Motorsport 3','2009-10-22','Turn 10 Studios','Microsoft Gaming Studios','Forza Motorsport 3 is a racing video game developed for Xbox 360 by Turn 10 Studios. It was released in October 2009. It is the sequel to Forza Motorsport 2 and the third installment in the Forza series. The game includes more than 400 customizable cars from 50 manufacturers and more than 100 race track variations with the ability to race up to eight cars on track at a time. These cars vary from production cars to race cars such as those from the American Le Mans Series.'),
(43,'Halo 3','2007-09-25','Bungie','Microsoft Game Studios','Halo 3s story centers on the interstellar war between twenty-sixth century humanity and a collection of alien races known as the Covenant. The player assumes the role of the Master Chief, a cybernetically enhanced supersoldier, as he battles the Covenant. The game features vehicles, weapons, and gameplay elements not present in previous titles of the series, as well as the addition of saved gameplay films, file sharing, and the Forge map editor—a utility which allows the player to perform modifications to multiplayer levels.'),
(44,'Halo: Reach','2010-09-14','Bungie','Microsoft Game Studios','Halo: Reach is a first-person shooter video game developed by Bungie and published by Microsoft Game Studios for the Xbox 360 home video game console. The sixth installment in the Halo series, Reach was released worldwide in September 2010. The game takes place in the year 2552, where humanity is locked in a war with the alien Covenant. Players control Noble Six, a member of an elite supersoldier squad, when the human world known as Reach falls under Covenant attack.'),
(45,'Halo 4','2012-11-06','343 Industries','Microsoft Studios','Halo 4 is a first-person shooter video game developed by 343 Industries and published by Microsoft Studios for the Xbox 360 video game console. The seventh video game installment in the Halo franchise, the game was released worldwide in November 2012. Halo 4s story follows a cybernetically enhanced human supersoldier, Master Chief, and his artificial intelligence construct Cortana, as they encounter unknown threats while exploring an ancient civilizations planet.'),
(46,'Left 4 Dead','2008-11-17','Valve South','Valve Corporation','Set during the aftermath of an apocalyptic pandemic, the game pits its four protagonists—dubbed the Survivors—against hordes of the infected. There are four game modes: a single-player mode in which allied characters are controlled by AI; a four-player, co-op campaign mode; an eight-player online versus mode; and a four-player survival mode. In all modes, an artificial intelligence, dubbed the Director, controls level pacing and item placements, in an attempt to create a dynamic experience and increase replay value.'),
(47,'Mass Effect','2007-11-20','Bioware','Electronic Arts','The original trilogy largely revolves around a soldier named Commander Shepard, whose mission is to save the galaxy from a race of powerful mechanical beings known as the Reapers and their agents, including the first games antagonist Saren Arterius. The first game, released in 2007, sees Shepard investigating Saren, whom Shepard slowly comes to understand is operating under the guidance of Sovereign, a Reaper left behind in the Milky Way tens of thousands of years before'),
(48,'Mass Effect 2','2010-01-26','Bioware','Electronic Arts','Mass Effect 2 is an action role-playing video game developed by BioWare and published by Electronic Arts. It was released for Microsoft Windows and Xbox 360 on January 26, 2010, and for PlayStation 3 on January 18, 2011. Mass Effect 2 is the second installment of the Mass Effect series and a sequel to the original Mass Effect. The game takes place within the Milky Way galaxy during the 22nd century, where humanity is threatened by an insectoid species known as the Collectors. The player assumes the role of Commander Shepard, an elite human soldier who must construct and gain the loyalty of a diverse team in order to defeat the enemy in a suicide mission. With the use of a completed saved game of its predecessor, the player can impact the story of the game in numerous ways.'),
(49,'Star Wars: The Force Unleashed','2008-09-16','Lucas Arts','Lucas Arts','The project bridges the first two Star Wars trilogies, acting as an origin story for both the united Rebel Alliance and the Galactic Civil War depicted in the Original Trilogy. The game introduces a new protagonist, Starkiller, as Darth Vaders secret apprentice, who is tasked with hunting down Jedi while killing rebels and Imperials alike in order to hide his existence from the Emperor, but soon starts to slowly redeem himself to the light side of the Force.'),
(50,'The Elder Scroll IV','2006-03-20','Bethesda Game Studios','Bethesda Softworks','Oblivions main story revolves around the player characters efforts to thwart a fanatical cult known as the Mythic Dawn that plans to open the gates to a realm called Oblivion. The game continues the open world tradition of its predecessors by allowing the player to travel anywhere in the game world at any time and to ignore or postpone the main storyline indefinitely. A perpetual objective for players is to improve their characters skills, which are numerical representations of certain abilities. Seven skills are selected early in the game as major skills, with the remainder termed minor. Developers opted for tighter pacing in gameplay and greater plot focus than in past titles.'),
(51,'Tom Clancy: Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter','2006-03-09','Ubisoft Paris','Ubisoft','Tom Clancys Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a tactical shooter video game released for Xbox 360, Xbox, PlayStation 2 and Microsoft Windows. As in previous Ghost Recon games, players command their team of Ghosts while neutralizing hostile forces and completing various mission objectives. These objectives can range from escorting friendly units across the map to rescuing hostages or taking out enemy artillery.'),
(52,'The Orange Box','2007-10-10','Valve','Valve','The Orange Box is a video game compilation for Microsoft Windows, Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, OS X and Linux. The Windows and Xbox 360 versions were produced and published by Valve Corporation and released on October 10, 2007, as a boxed retail copy. A Windows-only download through Valves Steam service was released the previous day.'),
(53,'Viva Pinata','2006-10-09','Rare','Microsoft Game Studios','Viva Pinata is a video game franchise by Microsoft Studios and Rare. The series first game, Viva Pinata, was conceived as a mobile gardening game before Rare was acquired by Microsoft. It was then developed for the Xbox and ultimately the Xbox 360. It launched alongside an animated series produced by 4Kids. The game received two console sequels, Party Animals and Trouble in Paradise, as well as a handheld release, Pocket Paradise , for the Nintendo DS.'),
(54,'Uno','2006-05-09','Carbonated Games','Microsoft Game Studios','Uno is the video game adaptation of the card game of the same name. It has been released for a number of platforms. The Xbox 360 version by Carbonated Games and Microsoft Game Studios released on May 9, 2006 as a digital download via Xbox Live Arcade.'),
(55,'Dead Rising 3','2013-11-22','Capcom Vancouver','Microsoft','Dead Rising 3 is a 2013 open world survival horror beat em up video game. It is developed by Capcom Vancouver and published by Microsoft. The game was released as a launch title for the Xbox One platform on November 22, 2013; a Microsoft Windows port published by Capcom was released on September 5, 2014. It was announced as an Xbox One exclusive during Microsofts E3 2013 press conference on June 10, 2013.'),
(56,'Forza Motorsport 5','2013-11-22','Turn 10 Studios','Microsoft Studios','Forza Motorsport 5 is a racing video game developed by Turn 10 Studios and published by Microsoft Studios for the Xbox One. The game was released on November 22, 2013 as a launch title. The game was revealed on May 21, 2013 during the Xbox One reveal event. It features Jeremy Clarkson, James May, and Richard Hammond from Top Gear for the games commentary when choosing a new event, championship, or league. It is the fifth Forza Motorsport and sixth overall installment in the Forza series.'),
(57,'Forza Motorsport 6','2015-09-15','Turn 10 Studios','Microsoft Studios','Forza Motorsport 6 features new gameplay elements, such rain and night racing. Also featured, is a new story mode called Stories of Motorsport, which offers approximately 70 hours of gameplay. Forza Motorsport 6 features more than 450 cars, more than twice the number of cars in Forza Motorsport 5.'),
(58,'Gears of War','2006-11-07','Epic Games','Microsoft Game Studios','The game focuses on the troops of Delta Squad as they wield a desperate, last-ditch attempt to save the remaining human inhabitants of the fictional planet Sera from a relentless and genocidal subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde. The player assumes the role of Marcus Fenix, a former prisoner and war-hardened soldier. The game is based on the use of cover and strategic fire for the player to advance through the scenarios; a second player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist. The game also features several online multiplayer game modes for up to eight players.'),
(59,'Halo 5: Guardians','2015-10-27','343 Industries','Microsoft Studios','Halo 5: Guardians is a first-person shooter video game developed by 343 Industries and published by Microsoft Studios for the Xbox One home video game console. Part of the Halo series, the game was released on October 27, 2015. Halo 5s plot follows two fireteams of human supersoldiers; when Blue Team, led by Master Chief, goes absent without leave to track down the artificial intelligence construct Cortana, the Master Chiefs loyalties are called into question and Spartan Locke along with Fireteam Osiris are sent to retrieve him.'),
(60,'Rise of the Tomb Raider','2015-11-10','Crystal Dynamics','Square Enix','Rise of the Tomb Raider was officially announced in June 2014. The games storyline follows Lara Croft as she ventures into Siberia in search of the legendary city of Kitezh, whilst battling a paramilitary organization that intends on beating her to the citys promise of immortality. Presented from a third-person perspective, the game primarily focuses on survival and combat, while the player may also explore its landscape and various optional tombs. Camilla Luddington returns to voice and perform her role as Lara.'),
(61,'Bloodborne','2015-03-24','FromSoftware','Sony Computer Entertainment','Bloodborne follows the player character, the Hunter, through the fictional decrepit Gothic, Victorian era inspired city of Yharnam, whose inhabitants have been afflicted with an abnormal blood-borne disease. Upon mysteriously awakening in Yharnam during the night of The Hunt, the Hunter seeks out something known only as Paleblood for reasons unknown. The Hunter begins to unravel Yharnams intriguing mysteries while hunting down its many terrifying beasts. Eventually, the Hunters objective is to locate and terminate the source of the plague, and escape the nightmare.'),
(62,'DriveClub','2014-10-07','Evolution Studios','Sony Computer Entertainment','Driveclub is a racing game in which players compete in racing events around the world in a variety of different fashions. Players can compete in clubs with other players, earning a reputation as one of the best clubs, and leveling up to unlock better items. Another game mode is tour, essentially a campaign mode. Players can compete in standard races, as well as time trials, drifting events, and championship tournaments, which may take place in Norway, Canada, Scotland, India, Japan, and Chile. Players may customize their car, their club, or their driver, and may complete optional challenges during events. A weather system and day-night cycle is also in place.'),
(63,'Infamous Second Son','2014-03-21','Sucker Punch','Sony Computer Entertainment','Infamous Second Son is an open world action-adventure video game developed by Sucker Punch Productions and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. The game was released worldwide on March 21, 2014. Like in previous Infamous games, the player-controlled protagonist possesses superpower abilities that players use in combat and when traveling across the city. The story follows protagonist Delsin Rowe fighting the Department of Unified Protection in a fictionalized Seattle. Over the course of the game, Delsin acquires new powers and becomes either good or evil as player choices influence his morality.'),
(64,'Killzone Shadow Fall','2013-11-15','Guerrilla Games','Sony Computer Entertainment','Killzone Shadow Fall is a first-person shooter video game developed by Guerrilla Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. It is the sixth game of the Killzone series and the fourth game of that series for home consoles. Killzone Shadow Fall was released on 15 November 2013 as a launch title for the PlayStation 4 in North America and 29 November 2013 in Europe. The game was released on 22 February 2014 in Japan. Taking place 30 years after the events of Killzone 3, Shadow Fall follows a new set of characters, putting players in the role of Lucas Kellan, a Shadow Marshal, who is investigating a rising threat in the continuing war between Vekta and the Helghast.'),
(65,'Uncharted 4: A Thiefs End ','2016-05-10','Naughty Dog','Sony Interactive Entertainment','Set several years after the events of Uncharted 3: Drakes Deception, A Thiefs End follows series protagonist Nathan Drake, who has retired from fortune hunting. He reunites with his older brother Sam and longtime partner Sully to search for clues for the location of Captain Henry Averys long-lost treasure to save his brother.'),
(66,'Minecraft','2011-11-18','Mojang','Mojang','Minecraft is a sandbox video game originally created by Swedish game designer Markus Notch Persson and later developed and published by Mojang. The creative and building aspects of Minecraft enable players to build constructions out of textured cubes in a 3D procedurally generated world. Other activities in the game include exploration, resource gathering, crafting, and combat. Multiple gameplay modes are available, including survival mode where the player must acquire resources to build the world and maintain health, a creative mode where players have unlimited resources to build with and the ability to fly, an adventure mode where players can play custom maps created by other players, and a spectator mode where players can fly around and clip through blocks, but cannot place or destroy any. The PC version of the game is noted for its modding scene, where a dedicated community creates new gameplay mechanics, items, and assets for the game.'),
(67,'World of Warcraft','2005-02-11','Blizzard','Blizzard','World of Warcraft is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game released in 2004 by Blizzard Entertainment. It is the fourth released game set in the fantasy Warcraft universe, which was first introduced by Warcraft: Orcs & Humans in 1994. World of Warcraft takes place within the Warcraft world of Azeroth, approximately four years after the events at the conclusion of Blizzards previous Warcraft release, Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Blizzard Entertainment announced World of Warcraft on September 2, 2001. The game was released on November 23, 2004, on the 10th anniversary of the Warcraft franchise.'),
(68,'Diablo III','2012-05-15','Blizzard','Blizzard','In the game, players choose one of six character classes – Barbarian, Crusader, Demon Hunter, Monk, Witch Doctor or Wizard, and are tasked with defeating the Lord of Terror, Diablo.'),
(69,'Counter-Strike','1999-08-19','Valve','Valve','Counter-Strike is a series of multiplayer first-person shooter video games, in which teams of terrorists and counter-terrorists battle to, respectively, perpetrate an act of terror and prevent it bomb defusal, hostage rescue.'),
(70,'The Sims','2000-02-04','Maxis','Electronic Arts','The Sims is a 2000 strategic life-simulation video game developed by Maxis and published by Electronic Arts. It is a simulation of the daily activities of one or more virtual people in a suburban household near a fictional city. The games development was led by game designer Will Wright who is also known for developing SimCity.'),
(71,'StarCraft','1998-03-31','Blizzard','Blizzard','StarCraft is a military science fiction media franchise created by Chris Metzen and James Phinney, and owned by Blizzard Entertainment. The series, set in the beginning of the 26th century, centers on a galactic struggle for dominance between four species—the adaptable and mobile Terrans, the ever-evolving insectoid Zerg, the powerfully enigmatic Protoss, and the god-like XelNaga creator race—in a distant part of the Milky Way galaxy known as the Koprulu Sector. The series debuted with the video game StarCraft in 1998. Since then it has grown to include a number of other games as well as eight novelizations, two Amazing Stories articles, a board game, and other licensed merchandise such as collectible statues and toys.'),
(72,'Garrys Mod','2013-12-24','Facepunch','Valve','Garrys Mod, is a sandbox physics game created by Garry Newman, and developed by his company, Facepunch Studios. Garrys Mod was originally a mod for Valve Corporations Half-Life 2, but was later made into a standalone release in 2006 for Microsoft Windows, published by Valve Corporation. Later updates saw an OS X port added in 2010, and a version for Linux in 2013.'),
(73,'Half-Life 2','2004-11-16','Valve','Valve','Some years after the events of Half-Life, protagonist Gordon Freeman is woken by the enigmatic G-Man to find the world has been taken over by the alien Combine. Joined by allies including resistance fighter Alyx Vance, Gordon searches for a way to free humanity using a variety of weapons, including the object-manipulating gravity gun.'),
(74,'Half-Life','1998-11-19','Valve','Valve','Half-Life is a science fiction first-person shooter video game developed by Valve, released in 1998 by Sierra Studios for Microsoft Windows. It was Valves debut product and the first in the Half-Life series. Players assume the role of Dr. Gordon Freeman, who must fight his way out of a secret research facility after a teleportation experiment goes disastrously wrong, fighting enemies and solving puzzles.'),
(75,'The Sims 3','2009-06-02','The Sims Studio','Electronic Arts','The Sims 3 is built upon the same concept as its predecessors. Players control their own Sims activities and relationships in a manner similar to real life. The game play is open-ended and does not have a defined goal. Challenges occur randomly based on aspects of each Sims lifestyle, such as relationships, skills and job.'),
(76,'Terraria','2011-05-16','Re-Logic','505 Games','The game features exploration, crafting, construction, and combat with a variety of creatures in a procedurally generated 2D world. The game received positive reviews from critics, and over 18 million copies of Terraria were sold by July 2016.'),
(77,'Guild Wars','2005-04-26','ArenaNet','NCSOFT','Guild Wars, renamed later to Guild Wars Prophecies, is the first campaign of the Guild Wars series of Action RPGs, developed by the Seattle-based ArenaNet game developer studio, a subsidiary of South Korean game publisher NCSOFT. Prophecies introduced players to the world of Guild Wars, known as Tyria, and premiered several elements that are now known as core components of the Guild Wars games.'),
(78,'RollerCoasterTycoon','1999-03-31','Chris Sawyer Productions','Hasbro Interactive','RollerCoaster Tycoon is a construction and management simulation video game that simulates amusement park management.'),
(79,'Warhammer 40,000:Dawn of War','2004-09-20','Relic Entertainment','THQ','Gameplay is initially focused on capturing and holding strategic locations on the battlefield. These control points are captured by infantry squads and provide resources to construct additional units and buildings or unlock certain units in an armys tech tree. Battles are won either by holding a certain number of control points for a period of time or by destroying all of the opposing armies HQ structures. A number of special conditions are available to choose from to customize matches.'),
(80,'Doom 3','2004-08-03','ID Software','Activision','The game is a reboot of id Softwares Doom franchise. Doom 3 is set in 2145 on Mars, where a military-industrial conglomerate has set up a scientific research facility to research into fields such as teleportation, biological research and advanced weapons design. However, the teleportation experiments inadvertently open a gateway to Hell, resulting in a catastrophic invasion by demons. The player, an anonymous space marine, must fight through the base and find a way to stop the demons attacking Earth. Doom 3 features an award-winning game engine, id Tech 4, which has since been licensed out to other developers, and later released under the GNU General Public License in November 2011.'),
(81,'Civilization IV','2005-10-25','Firaxis Games','2K Games','Civilization IV uses the 4X empire-building model for turn-based strategy gameplay, in which the players main objective is to construct a civilization from limited initial resources. Most standard full-length games start the player with a settler unit and/or a city unit in the year 4000 BC. As with other games in the series, there are by default five objectives the player can pursue in order to finish the game: conquering all other civilizations, controlling a supermajority of the game worlds land and population, building and sending the first sleeper ship to the Alpha Centauri star system, increasing the Culture ratings of at least three different cities to legendary levels, or winning a World Leader popularity contest by the United Nations.'),
(82,'DayZ','2013-12-16','Bohemia Interactive','Bohemia Interactive','The game places the player in the fictional 225 km2 post-Soviet state of Chernarus, where a mysterious plague has turned most of the population into violent zombies. As a survivor, the player must scavenge the world for food, water, weapons, and medicine, while killing or avoiding zombies, and killing, avoiding, or cooperating with other players in an effort to survive the outbreak.'),
(83,'Crysis','2007-11-13','Crytek','Electronic Arts','The game is based in a future where a massive ancient alien-constructed structure has been discovered buried inside a mountain in the fictional Lingshan Islands, near the coast of the East Philippines. The single-player campaign has the player assume the role of U.S. Army Delta Force soldier Jake Dunn, referred to in-game by his callsign, Nomad. Nomad is armed with various futuristic weapons and equipment, most notably a Nanosuit which was inspired by the real-life military concept of a Future Force Warrior. In Crysis, the player fights both North Korean and extraterrestrial enemies in various environments on and around the island.'),
(84,'Rust','2013-12-11','Facepunch Studios','Facepunch Studios','The game tasks players to survive in the wilderness by crafting items using the materials they gather or steal; the player starts with only a rock and a torch. There is only a multiplayer mode and a prevalent concept in Rust is to form and join clans with other players. Raiding is a very common action, usually done in large clans. Since Rusts first alpha launch, animals, hunting and the ability to craft armor and weapons have been added. It initially featured zombies as enemies, but subsequently replaced them with bears and wolves. Radiation was also removed due to the frustration it was causing players, although it was later reintroduced.'),
(85,'Doom','1993-12-10','ID Software','GT Interactive','Doom is a 1993 science fiction horror-themed first-person shooter video game by id Software. It is considered one of the most significant and influential titles in video game history, for having helped to pioneer the now-ubiquitous first-person shooter. The original game was divided into three nine-level episodes and was distributed via shareware and mail order. The Ultimate Doom, an updated release of the original game featuring a fourth episode, was released in 1995 and sold at retail.'),
(86,'ARMA 3','2013-09-12','Bohemia Interactive','Bohemia Interactive','Set in 2035, more than 25 years after the events of ARMA 2, NATO forces deployed to islands of the Altis and Stratis fight against a massive CSAT offensive from the east. The single-player campaign will have the player take control of Corporal Ben Kerry, a US Army soldier. Initially, the player must survive on his own after friendly forces are defeated in a failed NATO operation.'),
(87,'Far Cry','2004-03-23','Crytek','Ubisoft','Set on a mysterious tropical archipelago, Far Cry follows ex-special forces soldier Jack Carver as he searches for a journalist he was escorting after she went missing when their boat was destroyed by mercenaries. The game is played from a first-person view and allows the player to use various weapons and tools as well as take advantage of their environments.'),
(88,'Battlefield 1942','2002-09-13','Digital Illusions CE','Electronic Arts','In-game, players assume the role of one of five classes of infantry: Scout, Assault, Anti-Tank, Medic, and Engineer. Players also have the ability to fly various World War II fighter aircraft and bombers, navigate capital ships, submarines and aircraft carriers, man coastal artillery defenses, drive tanks, APCs and jeeps, and take control of anti-aircraft guns and mounted machine guns.'),
(89,'The Witcher','2007-10-26','CD Projekt RED','Atari','The Witcher is an action role-playing hack and slash video game developed by CD Projekt RED and published by Atari. The game is based on the novel series of the same name by Polish author Andrzej Sapkowski. The Witcher takes place in a medieval fantasy world and follows the story of Geralt, one of a few remaining Witchers – traveling monster hunters for hire who have supernatural powers. The games system of moral choices as part of the storyline was noted for its time-delayed consequences and lack of black-and-white morality.'),
(90,'Age of Empires II','1999-09-30','Ensemble Studio','Microsoft','The Age of Kings is set in the Middle Ages and contains thirteen playable civilizations. Players aim to gather resources, which they use to build towns, create armies, and defeat their enemies. There are five historically based campaigns, which constrict the player to specialized and story-backed conditions. There are three additional single-player game modes, and multiplayer is supported. Despite using the same game engine and similar code to its predecessor, development of The Age of Kings took a year longer than expected, forcing Ensemble Studios to release Age of Empires: The Rise of Rome in 1998 instead. The design team focused on resolving significant issues in Age of Empires, but noted on release that some problems remained.'),
(91,'The Binding of Isaac','2011-09-28','Edmund McMillen','Edmund McMillen','The Binding of Isaac is an independent roguelike video game designed by Edmund McMillen and Florian Himsl, initially released in 2011 for Microsoft Windows; the game was later ported for OS X, and Linux operating systems. The games title and plot were inspired by the Biblical story of the Binding of Isaac. After his mother receives a message from God demanding the life of her son as proof of her faith, Isaac flees into the monster-filled basement of their home, where he must fight to survive. Players control Isaac or one of six other unlockable characters through a procedurally generated dungeon in a roguelike manner, fashioned after those of The Legend of Zelda, defeating monsters in real-time combat while collecting items and power-ups to defeat bosses and eventually Isaacs mom.'),
(92,'Euro Truck Simulator 2','2013-01-16','SCS Software','SCS Software','Euro Truck Simulator 2 is a vehicle simulation game developed and published by SCS Software for Microsoft Windows, Linux and Mac OS X and was initially released as open development on 19 October 2012. The game is a direct sequel to the 2008 game Euro Truck Simulator and it is the second video game in the Truck Simulator series. The player can drive one of a choice of articulated trucks across a depiction of Europe, picking up cargo from various locations and delivering it. As the game progresses, it is possible for the player to buy more vehicles, depots, and hire drivers to work. '),
(93,'Sim City Reboot','2013-03-06','Maxis','Electronic Arts','The game is considered to be a reboot of the SimCity series. Players can create a settlement that can grow into a city by zoning land for residential, commercial, or industrial development, as well as building and maintaining public services, transport and utilities. SimCity uses a new engine called GlassBox, allowing for more detailed simulation than previous games. Throughout its development, SimCity received critical acclaim for its new engine and reimagined gameplay; however, publications cautioned the games use of a persistent Internet connection, with which it stores saved games and allows players to share resources.'),
(94,'Cities: Skyine','2015-03-05','Colossal Order','Paradox Interactice','Cities: Skylines is a city-building game by Colossal Order and published by Paradox Interactive, released on 10 March 2015 for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and Linux. The game is a single player open-ended city-building simulation. Players engage in urban planning by controlling zoning, road placement, taxation, public services, and public transportation of an area. Players work to maintain the citys budget, population, health, happiness, employment, pollution (land, water and noise), traffic flow, and other factors. The player can also play in a sandbox mode with two mods that come preinstalled in the game, ready to enable. These mods unlock all milestones and provide unlimited money to the player.'),
(95,'The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt','2015-05-19','CD ProjeKt RED','CD Projekt','Played in a third-person perspective, players control protagonist Geralt of Rivia, a monster hunter known as a witcher, who sets out on a long journey to find his lover and adopted daughter, who are on the run from a group known as the Wild Hunt. In the game, players battle against the worlds many dangers using swords and magic, while interacting with non-player characters and completing side quests and main missions to progress through the story.'),
(96,'Europa Universalis IV','2013-08-13','Paradox Development Studio','Paradox Interactive','In the game, players control a nation from the Late Middle Ages through the Early modern period , conducting trade, diplomacy, colonization, and warfare.'),
(97,'Undertale','2015-09-15','Toby Fox','Toby Fox','Undertale is a role-playing video game created by indie developer Toby Fox. In the game, players control a human child who has fallen into the Underground, a large, secluded region underneath the surface of the Earth, separated by a magic barrier. The player meets various monsters during a quest to return to the surface, mainly through the combat system; the player navigates through mini-bullet hell attacks by the opponent cyclically, and can opt to spare monsters instead of attacking and killing them. These choices affect the game, with the dialogue, characters, and story changing based on outcomes.'),
(98,'Space Engineers','2013-10-23','Keen Software','Keen Software','Space Engineers is a voxel-based sandbox game set in space and on planets. It is being developed and published by Czech Republic developer Keen Software House. Since 2013, it has been available on Steam as an early access game. While still in active development, Space Engineers has sold one million units. In May 2015, the games source code was made available to the community for easier modding.'),
(99,'Stardew Valley','2016-02-26','ConcernedApe','Chucklefish Games','Stardew Valley is an indie farming simulation role-playing video game developed by ConcernedApe and published by Chucklefish Games. The game was released for Microsoft Windows in February 2016, with ports for OS X and Linux being released later that year, and ports for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One slated for release December 2016. A port for Nintendo Switch has been announced and is in development. In Stardew Valley, the player takes the role of a character that, to get away from the hustle of an office job, takes over their grandfathers dilapidated farm in a place known as Stardew Valley. The player manages their characters time and energy levels as they clear land, plant and tend crops, raise livestock, craft goods, mine for ores, and engage in social activities, including romances leading towards marriage, with the various residents of the small town, all while earning in-game money to expand their farm. The game is open-ended, allowing the player to take on activities as they see fit.'),
(100,'Unreal','1998-04-30','Epic Mega Games','GT Interactive','Unreal is a first-person shooter video game developed by Epic MegaGames and Digital Extremes and published by GT Interactive in April 1998. It was powered by an original game engine that now bears the games name, and had been in development for over three years in founder Tim Sweeneys garage before the game was released.'),
(101,'Battlefield 1','2016-10-21','EA DICE','Electronic Arts','Similar to previous entries in the series, Battlefield 1 is a first-person shooter that emphasizes teamwork. The game is set in the period of World War I, and is inspired by historic events.'),
(102,'Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare','2016-4-11','Infinity Ward','Activision','The games campaign is centered around a battle for the Solar System, which the Settlement Defense Front, a hostile force who are the main antagonists, are attempting to take over. The player takes control of Captain Nick Reyes of the Special Combat Air Recon. They have their own transforming fighter, named Jackal, that they can customize as well as a central hub world named Retribution.'),
(103,'Final Fantasy XV','2016-11-29','Square Enix Business Division 2','Square Enix','Final Fantasy XV takes place on the fictional world of Eos. All the worlds countries—bar the kingdom of Lucis—are under the dominion of the empire of Niflheim. Noctis Lucis Caelum, heir to the Lucian throne, goes on a quest to retake his homeland and its magical crystal after it is seized by Niflheim on the eve of peace negotiations between the two nations.'),
(104,'Halo Wars 2','2017-02-21','343 Industries','Microsoft Studios','The game is set in the science fiction universe of the Halo series in the year 2559, and is a sequel to the 2009 video game Halo Wars. The game sees the return of the human crew aboard the UNSC warship Spirit of Fire and introduces a new alien faction known as the Banished.'),
(105,'Overwatch','2016-05-24','Blizzard','Blizzard','Overwatch puts players into two teams of six, with each player selecting one of several pre-defined hero characters with unique movement, attributes, and abilities; these heroes are divided into four classes: Offense, Defense, Tank and Support. Players on a team work together to secure and defend control points on a map and/or escort a payload across the map in a limited amount of time. Players gain cosmetic rewards that do not affect gameplay, such as character skins and victory poses, as they continue to play in matches.'),
(106,'Red Dead Redemption 2','2017-01-01','Rockstar Studios','Rockstar Games','Red Dead Redemption 2 is an upcoming open world western action-adventure video game developed by Rockstar Studios and published by Rockstar Games for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in Q3/Q4 2017. The sequel to 2010s Red Dead Redemption, it will be the third entry in the Red Dead series.'),
(107,'The Last Guardian','2016-12-06','genDESIGN','Sony Interactive Entertainment','In The Last Guardian, the player controls a young boy who befriends a giant half-bird-half-mammal creature, Trico, and the two work together to evade guards that are after them both. The player must manipulate Trico as they would a real animal, such as luring it with food, to use it to reach high platforms or other remote places, while evading enemies.'),
(108,'Mass Effect: Andromeda','2017-01-01','Bioware','Electronic Arts','Mass Effect: Andromeda is an upcoming action role-playing third-person shooter video game developed by BioWare and published by Electronic Arts for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. A successor to 2012s Mass Effect 3, Mass Effect: Andromeda is the first game in the series to feature an open world environment. The game was officially announced on June 15, 2015, during the Electronic Arts press conference at E3 2015.'),
(109,'Dead Rising 4','2016-12-06','Capcom Vancouver','Microsoft Studios','Dead Rising 4 is an upcoming open world survival horror action-adventure video game developed by Capcom Vancouver and published by Microsoft Studios for Microsoft Windows and Xbox One. It was announced at Microsofts E3 2016 press conference on June 13, 2016. It features the return of Frank West, and is set in a Christmas-themed Willamette, Colorado. The game is scheduled to be released worldwide on December 6, 2016'),
(110,'Dishonered 2','2016-11-11','Arkane Studios','Bethesda Softworks','The series takes place in the fictional Empire of the Isles with the majority of Dishonored 2 set in the coastal city of Karnaca and is set fifteen years after the events of the first game. After Empress Emily Kaldwin is deposed by an otherworldly usurper, the player may choose between playing as either Emily or her bodyguard and father Corvo Attano as they attempt to reclaim the throne. Both Emily and Corvo employ their own array of supernatural abilities. They can alternatively decide to forfeit them altogether. There are a multitude of ways to succeed in each given mission, from stealth to purposeful violent conflict.'),
(111,'Horizon Zero Dawn','2017-02-28','Guerrilla Games','Sony Interactive Entertainment','The plot revolves around Aloy, a hunter and archer who lives in a world overrun by robots. Having been cloistered her whole life, she sets out to discover the dangers that kept her sheltered for so long. Aloy makes use of ranged and melee weapons and stealth tactics to combat the mechanised creatures whose remains can also be looted for resources. The game features an open world environment for Aloy to explore, divided into tribes that hold side quests to accomplish while the main story guides her throughout the whole world.');

UNLOCK TABLES;




DROP TABLE IF EXISTS userReview;
CREATE TABLE userReview (
gameID INT,
reviewID INT NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
comment VARCHAR (2000),
reviewRating INT,
reviewDate DATETIME,
PRIMARY KEY (reviewID),
FOREIGN KEY (gameID) REFERENCES videoGame(gameID)
);

LOCK TABLES userReview Write;

INSERT INTO userReview (gameID,comment,reviewRating,reviewDate) VALUES
(1,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(2,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(3,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(4,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(5,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(6,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(7,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(8,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(9,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(10,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(11,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(12,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(13,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(14,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(15,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(16,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(17,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(18,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(19,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(20,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(21,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(22,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(23,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(24,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(25,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(26,'First comment!',5,NOW()),
(27,'First comment!',5,NOW()),
(28,'First comment!',4,NOW()),
(29,'First comment!',5,NOW()),
(30,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(31,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(32,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(33,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(34,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(35,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(36,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(37,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(38,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(39,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(40,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(41,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(42,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(43,'First comment!',5,NOW()),
(44,'First comment!',5,NOW()),
(45,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(46,'First comment!',5,NOW()),
(47,'First comment!',4,NOW()),
(48,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(49,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(50,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(51,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(52,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(53,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(54,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(55,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(56,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(57,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(58,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(59,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(60,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(61,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(62,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(63,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(64,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(65,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(66,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(67,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(68,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(69,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(70,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(71,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(72,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(73,'First comment!',4,NOW()),
(74,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(75,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(76,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(77,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(78,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(79,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(80,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(81,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(82,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(83,'First comment!',5,NOW()),
(84,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(85,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(86,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(87,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(88,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(89,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(90,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(91,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(92,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(93,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(94,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(95,'First comment!',5,NOW()),
(96,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(97,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(98,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(99,'First comment!',5,NOW()),
(100,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(101,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(102,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(103,'First comment!',5,NOW()),
(104,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(105,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(106,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(107,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(108,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(109,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(110,'First comment!',3,NOW()),
(111,'First comment!',3,NOW());


UNLOCK TABLES;


DROP TABLE IF EXISTS gamePlatform;
CREATE TABLE gamePlatform (
gamePlatformID INT AUTO_INCREMENT,
gameID INT,
Platform VARCHAR (50),
PRIMARY KEY (gamePlatformID)
);

LOCK TABLES gamePlatform WRITE;

INSERT INTO gamePlatform VALUES
(1,1,'PS2'),
(2,2,'PS2'),
(3,2,'Xbox'),
(4,3,'PS2'),
(5,3,'Xbox'),
(6,3,'GameCube'),
(7,4,'PS2'),
(8,5,'GameCube'),
(9,5,'PC'),
(10,5,'PS2'),
(11,5,'Xbox'),
(12,6,'PS2'),
(13,7,'PS2'),
(14,7,'PS3'),
(15,8,'PS2'),
(16,9,'PS2'),
(17,9,'Xbox'),
(18,9,'GameCube'),
(19,10,'PS2'),
(20,11,'PS2'),
(21,12,'Xbox'),
(22,12,'PS2'),
(23,12,'PC'),
(24,13,'PS2'),
(25,13,'GameCube'),
(26,13,'Xbox'),
(27,13,'Xbox360'),
(28,13,'PC'),
(29,14,'PS2'),
(30,15,'PC'),
(31,15,'PS2'),
(32,15,'Xbox'),
(33,16,'PS2'),
(34,17,'PS2'),
(35,17,'PS3'),
(36,18,'PS2'),
(37,19,'PS2'),
(38,20,'PS2'),
(39,21,'PS2'),
(40,21,'PSP'),
(41,22,'PS2'),
(42,23,'PC'),
(43,23,'PS3'),
(44,23,'Xbox360'),
(45,23,'PS4'),
(46,23,'XboxOne'),
(47,24,'PS3'),
(48,25,'PS3'),
(49,25,'PS4'),
(50,26,'PS3'),
(51,26,'PS4'),
(52,26,'Xbox360'),
(53,26,'XboxOne'),
(54,27,'PS3'),
(55,28,'PS3'),
(56,28,'Xbox360'),
(57,29,'PS3'),
(58,30,'PS3'),
(59,30,'PS4'),
(60,31,'PS3'),
(61,31,'PS4'),
(62,32,'PS3'),
(63,33,'PC'),
(64,33,'PS3'),
(65,33,'PS4'),
(66,33,'XboxOne'),
(67,33,'Xbox360'),
(68,34,'PC'),
(69,34,'PS3'),
(70,34,'Xbox360'),
(71,35,'Xbox360'),
(72,35,'PS3'),
(73,35,'PC'),
(74,36,'PS3'),
(75,36,'Xbox360'),
(76,36,'PC'),
(77,37,'PS4'),
(78,37,'PS3'),
(79,37,'Xbox360'),
(80,37,'XboxOne'),
(81,37,'PC'),
(82,38,'Xbox360'),
(83,38,'PS3'),
(84,38,'PC'),
(85,39,'PC'),
(86,39,'PS3'),
(87,39,'Xbox360'),
(88,40,'PC'),
(89,40,'PS3'),
(90,40,'PS4'),
(91,40,'Xbox360'),
(92,40,'XboxOne'),
(93,41,'PC'),
(94,41,'PS3'),
(95,41,'Xbox360'),
(96,42,'Xbox360'),
(97,43,'XboxOne'),
(98,43,'Xbox360'),
(99,44,'Xbox360'),
(100,45,'XboxOne'),
(101,45,'Xbox360'),
(102,46,'Xbox360'),
(103,46,'PC'),
(104,47,'Xbox360'),
(105,47,'PS3'),
(106,47,'PC'),
(107,48,'PC'),
(108,48,'Xbox360'),
(109,48,'PS3'),
(110,49,'PS2'),
(111,49,'PS3'),
(112,49,'PC'),
(113,49,'PSP'),
(114,50,'Xbox360'),
(115,50,'PC'),
(116,50,'PS3'),
(117,51,'Xbox360'),
(118,51,'Xbox'),
(119,51,'PS2'),
(120,51,'PC'),
(121,52,'PC'),
(122,52,'Xbox360'),
(123,52,'PS3'),
(124,53,'Xbox360'),
(125,53,'PC'),
(126,54,'Xbox360'),
(127,54,'PS3'),
(128,54,'PS4'),
(129,54,'XboxOne'),
(130,55,'XboxOne'),
(131,55,'PC'),
(132,56,'XboxOne'),
(133,57,'XboxOne'),
(134,57,'PC'),
(135,58,'Xbox360'),
(136,58,'PC'),
(137,58,'XboxOne'),
(138,59,'XboxOne'),
(139,60,'XboxOne'),
(140,61,'PS4'),
(141,62,'PS4'),
(142,63,'PS4'),
(143,64,'PS4'),
(144,65,'PS4'),
(145,66,'PC'),
(146,66,'PS4'),
(147,66,'PS3'),
(148,66,'XboxOne'),
(149,66,'Xbox360'),
(150,67,'PC'),
(151,68,'PC'),
(152,68,'PS3'),
(153,68,'Xbox360'),
(154,68,'XboxOne'),
(155,68,'PS4'),
(156,69,'PS3'),
(157,69,'Xbox360'),
(158,69,'PC'),
(159,70,'PC'),
(160,70,'PS2'),
(161,70,'Xbox'),
(162,71,'PC'),
(163,72,'PC'),
(164,73,'PS3'),
(165,73,'Xbox360'),
(166,73,'PC'),
(167,74,'PS2'),
(168,74,'PC'),
(169,75,'PC'),
(170,76,'PC'),
(171,77,'PC'),
(172,78,'PC'),
(173,78,'Xbox'),
(174,79,'PC'),
(175,80,'PC'),
(176,80,'Xbox'),
(177,81,'PC'),
(178,82,'PC'),
(179,83,'Xbox360'),
(180,83,'PC'),
(181,83,'PS3'),
(182,84,'PC'),
(183,85,'Xbox360'),
(184,85,'Xbox'),
(185,85,'PS3'),
(186,85,'PS'),
(187,86,'PC'),
(188,87,'PC'),
(189,87,'PS3'),
(190,87,'Xbox360'),
(191,88,'PC'),
(192,89,'PC'),
(193,90,'PS2'),
(194,90,'PC'),
(195,91,'PC'),
(196,92,'PC'),
(197,93,'PC'),
(198,94,'PC'),
(199,95,'PC'),
(200,95,'XboxOne'),
(201,95,'PS4'),
(202,96,'PC'),
(203,97,'PC'),
(204,98,'PC'),
(205,99,'PC'),
(206,100,'PC'),
(207,101,'PC'),
(208,101,'XboxOne'),
(209,101,'PS4'),
(210,102,'PC'),
(211,102,'XboxOne'),
(212,102,'PS4'),
(213,103,'PC'),
(214,103,'PS4'),
(215,104,'PC'),
(216,104,'XboxOne'),
(217,105,'PC'),
(218,105,'XboxOne'),
(219,105,'PS4'),
(220,106,'XboxOne'),
(221,106,'PS4'),
(222,107,'PS4'),
(223,107,'PC'),
(224,108,'XboxOne'),
(225,108,'PS4'),
(226,108,'PC'),
(227,109,'XboxOne'),
(228,110,'PC'),
(229,110,'XboxOne'),
(230,110,'PS4'),
(231,111,'PS4');

UNLOCK TABLES;

DROP TABLE IF EXISTS gameGenre;
CREATE TABLE gameGenre (
gameGenreID INT AUTO_INCREMENT,
gameID INT,
Genre VARCHAR(50),
PRIMARY KEY (gameGenreID)
);

LOCK TABLES gameGenre WRITE;

INSERT INTO gameGenre VALUES

(1,1,'Flight Simulator'),
(2,2,'Racing'),
(3,3,'FPS'),
(4,4,'Fighting'),
(5,5,'Fighting'),
(6,5,'Action Adventure'),
(7,6,'RPG'),
(8,7,'Action Adventure'),
(9,8,'Action Adventure'),
(10,8,'TPS'),
(11,9,'Action Adventure'),
(12,10,'Platformer'),
(13,11,'RPG'),
(14,12,'Action Adventure'),
(15,13,'Sports'),
(16,14,'Action Adventure'),
(17,14,'Stealth'),
(18,15,'Racing'),
(19,16,'Platformer'),
(20,17,'Platformer'),
(21,18,'Sealth'),
(22,18,'ActionAdventure'),
(23,18,'Platformer'),
(24,19,'Fighting'),
(25,20,'Fighting'),
(26,21,'Fighting'),
(27,21,'Sports'),
(28,22,'RPG'),
(29,23,'FPS'),
(30,24,'Racing'),
(31,25,'Action Adventure'),
(32,26,'Action Adventure'),
(33,26,'TPS'),
(34,27,'Action Adventure'),
(35,27,'Stealth'),
(36,28,'Action Adventure'),
(37,29,'Platformer'),
(38,30,'TPS'),
(39,30,'Action Adventure'),
(40,30,'Platformer'),
(41,31,'TPS'),
(42,31,'Action Adventure'),
(43,32,'Action Adventure'),
(44,32,'Survival'),
(45,32,'Horror'),
(46,33,'TPS'),
(47,33,'Survival'),
(48,33,'Horror'),
(49,34,'FPS'),
(50,35,'FPS'),
(51,36,'Action Adventure'),
(52,36,'Stealth'),
(53,37,'Action Adventure'),
(54,37,'Stealth'),
(55,38,'FPS'),
(56,39,'FPS'),
(57,40,'FPS'),
(58,41,'RPG'),
(59,42,'Racing'),
(60,43,'FPS'),
(61,44,'FPS'),
(62,45,'FPS'),
(63,46,'FPS'),
(64,47,'RPG'),
(65,48,'RPG'),
(66,49,'Action Adventure'),
(67,50,'RPG'),
(68,51,'TPS'),
(69,52,'FPS'),
(70,52,'Puzzle'),
(71,53,'Life Simulation'),
(72,54,'Card Game'),
(73,55,'Survival'),
(74,55,'Horror'),
(75,56,'Racing'),
(76,57,'Racing'),
(77,58,'TPS'),
(78,59,'FPS'),
(79,60,'Action Adventure'),
(80,61,'Action Adventure'),
(81,62,'Racing'),
(82,63,'Action Adventure'),
(83,64,'FPS'),
(84,65,'Action Adventure'),
(85,66,'Sandbox'),
(86,67,'MMO'),
(87,67,'RPG'),
(88,68,'RPG'),
(89,69,'FPS'),
(90,70,'Life Simulation'),
(91,71,'Strategy'),
(92,72,'Sandbox'),
(93,73,'FPS'),
(94,74,'FPS'),
(95,75,'Life Simulation'),
(96,76,'Sandbox'),
(97,77,'RPG'),
(98,78,'Life Simulation'),
(99,79,'Strategy'),
(100,80,'FPS'),
(101,80,'Survival'),
(102,80,'Horror'),
(103,81,'Strategy'),
(104,82,'FPS'),
(105,82,'TPS'),
(106,82,'Survival'),
(107,83,'FPS'),
(108,84,'Action Adventure'),
(109,84,'Survival'),
(110,85,'FPS'),
(111,86,'TPS'),
(112,87,'FPS'),
(113,88,'FPS'),
(114,89,'RPG'),
(115,90,'Strategy'),
(116,91,'Action Adventure'),
(117,92,'Life Simulation'),
(118,93,'Life Simulation'),
(119,94,'Life Simulation'),
(120,95,'RPG'),
(121,96,'Strategy'),
(122,97,'RPG'),
(123,98,'Sandbox'),
(124,99,'Life Simulation'),
(125,100,'FPS'),
(126,101,'FPS'),
(127,102,'FPS'),
(128,103,'Action Adventure'),
(129,104,'Strategy'),
(130,105,'FPS'),
(131,106,'TPS'),
(132,106,'Action Adventure'),
(133,107,'Action Adventure'),
(134,107,'Platformer'),
(135,108,'RPG'),
(136,108,'Action Adventure'),
(137,109,'Survival'),
(138,109,'Horror'),
(139,110,'Action Adventure'),
(140,110,'FPS'),
(141,111,'TPS'),
(142,111,'Action Adventure');

UNLOCK TABLES;

